Docker images are stored as series of read-only layers. When we start a container, 
Docker takes the read-only image and adds a read-write layer on top. If the running 
container modifies an existing file, the file is copied out of the underlying read-only 
layer and into the top-most read-write layer where the changes are applied. The version 
in the read-write layer hides the underlying file, but does not destroy it — it still 
exists in the underlying layer. When a Docker container is deleted, relaunching the image 
will start a fresh container without any of the changes made in the previously running 
container — those changes are lost. 
Docker calls this combination of read-only layers with a read-write layer on top 
a Union File System.

In order to be able to save (persist) data and also to share data between containers Docker 
came up with the concept of volumes. Quite simply, volumes are directories (or files) that 
are outside of the default Union File System and exist as normal directories and files on 
the host filesystem.

When lanch container useing -v to share file between host and container, docker doesn't create
volumn, it just mount the host directory into the container. Instead, normal volumn is resides
in host path /var/lib/dockder/volumens/....

different volumn, docker also support mount bind
A bind mount is an alternate view of a directory tree. Classically, mounting creates a view of 
a storage device as a directory tree. A bind mount instead takes an existing directory tree and 
replicates it under a different point.

sudo mount --bind t1 t2 
t2 and t1 both exsists before mount bind, after mount bind, t2 has same content with t1, and file
could be modified from two directory, the content of t2 will be hidden.
sudo umount t2 //will remove the bind

the difference between volumes and mount bind, 
1 is the directory created in container from that volumn is managed by container, but the folder 
created by mount bind, could be modified by both container and process in host machine.
2 src must exists when use mount bind


in container, df will display a list of df
filesystem            mounted on
overlay                 / 
tmpfs                   /dev
/dev/sda1               /ben        //this is volume to share with host
tmpfs                   /proc/scsi
