an address architecture and assignment plan
support larger packet size
security and autoconfiguation


ipv6 header ---> 40 bytes

version, traffic class, label flow, 
payload length(exclude the header), next header(upper layer protocol), hop limit
source address
destination address

next header could specify extension header which immediately following the 
mandatory main IPv6 header, there can be zero, one, or several extension headers. 
A field common in all extension headers is another Next Hop field, which indicates 
whether another extension header is to follow, or the protocol of the data (payload) 
like a TCP segment. Therefore, the last extension header will always specify which 
protocol is encapsulated as the data or payload—again, similar to the Protocol field in IPv4.
The intention of extension headers is to provide flexibility to the main IPv6 header for 
future enhancements without having to redesign the entire protocol.


ipv6 ask for MTU of minimal 1280 bytes, recommand 1500 bytes. ipv6 recommand use path
discovery to avoid fragment. And only source of the pkt could fragment the packet, intermidate
routine couldn't fragment the packet.

checksum in ipv6 is removed, and link layer and transport layer has its own check sum.

xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx (xx == 16bit 2 hex format characters)


address types:
unicast:
  global unicast(314 rule) 48bits(global rouing prefix) + 16bites(subnet id) + 64bits(inteface id)
  unique local unicast (private address in v4 which isn't routable)
  link-local unicast (device on same local link)
  unspecified address (all 0 address which couldn't be assigned to interface)
  loop back address
  
(note: all 1 and 0 address in v6 is legal, and in v4, all 0 is reserved, and all 1 is broadcast
address)

anycast address == a unicast address assigned to several devices
a packet send to anycast address is only delivered to one device

multicast address == shared by a group of interfaces
a packet send to multicast address is delivered to all the devices.
multicast address has 
  Permanent(assigned by IANA)/Nonpermanent
  Scope(interface/link local/site local/organized local/global...)
solicited-node multicast address is automatically generate from unicast address on a device, so 
if a interface has a global and a link-local unicast address, it will has two solicited-node multicast
address
solicited-node multicast address is used to do:
  Address resolution
  Duplicate Address Detection(DAD)
