Pods in Kubernetes cluster usually have identical requirements and constraints, 
just think about a Deployment with a number of replications. So rather than 
determining feasibility for every pending pod on every node, we can only do 
predicates one pod per equivalence class – a group of tasks with identical 
requirements, and reuse the predicate results for other equivalent pods.

We hope to use this mechanism to help to improve scheduler's scalability, especially 
in cases like Replication Controller with huge number of instances, or eliminate 
pressure caused by complex predicate functions.

The concept of equivalence class in scheduling is a proven feature used originally 
in [Google Borg] .


Equivalence class: a group of pods which has identical requirements and constraints.

Equivalence class based scheduling: the scheduler will do predicate for only one pod 
per equivalence class, and reuse this result for all other equivalent pods.


Detailed Design
1. Define equivalence class
use controller reference, i.e. simply consider pods belonging to same controller reference 
to be equivalent.

2. Equivalence class in predicate phase
Predicate is the first phase in scheduler to filter out nodes which are feasible to 
run the workload. In detail:

Predicates functions are registered in scheduler
The predicates will be checked by scheduler.findNodesThatFit(pod, nodes, predicateFuncs ...).
The check process scheduler.podFitsOnNode(pod, node, predicateFuncs ...) is executed in 
parallel for every node.

2.1 Design an equivalence class cache
The step 3 is where registered predicate functions will be called against given pod and node. 
This step includes:

Check if given pod has equivalence class.
If yes, use equivalence class cache to do predicate.
In detail, we need to have an equivalence class cache to store all predicates results per node. 
The data structure is a 3 level map with keys of the levels being: nodeName, predicateKey 
and equivalenceHash.

3. Keep equivalence class cache up-to-date
The key of this equivalence class based scheduling is how to keep the equivalence cache up-to-date. 
Since even one single pod been scheduled to a node will make the cached result not stand as the 
available resource on this node has changed.

One approach is that we can invalidate the cached predicate result for this node. But in a heavy 
load cluster state change happens frequently and makes the design less meaningful.

So in this design, we proposed the ability to invalidate cached result for specific predicate. 
For example, when a new pod is scheduled to a node, the cached result for PodFitsResources should 
be invalidated on this node while others can still be re-used. That's also another reason we use 
predicate name as key for the cached value.

During the implementation, we need to consider all the cases which may affect the effectiveness 
of cached predicate result. The logic includes three dimensions:

Operation:
what operation will cause this cache invalid.
Invalid predicates:
what predicate should be invalidated.
Scope:
the cache of which node should be invalidated, or all nodes.
Please note with the change of predicates in subsequent development, this doc will become out-of-date, 
while you can always check the latest e-class cache update process in pkg/scheduler/factory/factory.go.
