Their removal would make the operating system not fully usable, since important 
features would be lost or some programs may behave differently or become unusable. 

An automated version of the validation process might just flag a strange code for
human approval, rather than rejecting the whole order outright.

Most people effortlessly recognize those digits as 504192. That ease is deceptive.

When you try to make such rules precise, you quickly get lost in a morass of exceptions 
and caveats and special cases.

The situation is better than this view suggests.

In particular, it's not possible to sum up the disign process for the hidden layers 
with a few simple rules of thumb.

Despite the fact that these definitions are undeniably correct, none are precise 
in a measurable way.

The term abstraction, referes to the distinction between the external properties of an 
entity and the details of the entity's internal composition.

It is by applying abstraction, then, that we are able to contruct, analyze, and manage
large, complex computer systems, which would be overwhelming if viewed in their entirely
at a detailed level.

Indeed 实际上
    It is indeed a remarkable achievement.
    I don't mind at all, indeed, I would be delighted to help
moreover 此外
    The price is too hight, and moreover, the house isn't in a suitable position.
however 然而
    I'd like to go with you; however my hands are full.
    Victory, however it was brough about, was very sweet. //无论
thus 因此，于是
    Even in a highly skilled workforce some people will be more capable and thus better paid
than others.

in short 简单说
in particular 特别，尤其
At first glance 咋一看
In contrast to 和xx相反
Under these circumstances 在这种情况下
otherwise 否则
    We're committed to the project, we won't be here otherwise
    He was slightly bruised but otherwise unhurt //除此之外
whereas 然而（对比两个事实），鉴于
    I hate, whereas you merely dislike, him
    One's life is finite, whereas one's passion for life is infinite
    Movements and shapes can be perceived whereas all other details are swallowed in blurry light.
suppose ... 假设
In addition to 除此之外

The concept of public libraries is largely based on the premise that all citizens
in a democracy must have access to information. As more information
is stored and disseminated via computer technology, does access to this technology
become a right of every individual?

The preceding example probably sounds simple, but it conveys the basic manner in which 
computers operate.

Katas originated in martial arts training, but the idea has spread beyond the dojo

The prevailing belief at the time was that an operation system had to be written in
assembly language to provide reasonable efficiency and to get access to the hardware.

By deliberately inducing faults, you ensure that the fault-tolerance machinery is continually
exercised and tested, which can increase your confidence taht faluts will be handled correctly
when they occur naturally.

If a system is expected to provide some guarantee, it can constantly check itself which 
it's running and raise an alert if a discrepancy is found.

A clever system obfuscates the internal working of the process, reducing the human to a passive
user who simply consume the insights provided by the machine. AI should be a tool to be wielded,
not a lens through which we view the world. To steer such a powerful tool, we must be equipped with
the knowledge to understand and operate it without eroding the human quality of our human system.
